# API Query Generator

## Why this is useful

It was previously hard to figure out which endpoint the api handler file was used at (Eg: where in api/vi/xxx it was called from). Now that link is generated via the @route tag.

All files will have consistent names now, as they are generated.

Only one file is required to make an endpoint now.

BUT: this will not fit all our cases, as this generator will not (at least initially) be able to handle every configuration option we want. So in that case, just use it to generate the initial files, then disable it from further generating them. Hopefully you should have saved some time.

## Conventions enforced

Some are hard enforcements, some are recommended.

Enforced now:

- The folder in `data-access-api/src/<HERE>` needs to be the name of a Prisma object
- The API handlers in our `api` folders need to be a function: `export function` not a lambda

## What it does

Reads the `api/*.ts` handler files then generates everything else needed to access those endpoints, including:

- adds the handler connection to the main app in `api/v1`
  - this is configured via a `@route` JSDoc string
- adds a unique react-query key entry
- generates a react-query mutation if it is a PUT, POST or PATCH
- generates a react-query query if it is a GET
- makes the mock file for the endpoint

## Custom JSDoc params:

- **@route**: where to put this API handler
  - If this is not found, the file will be skipped
  - Format: <VERB> <PATH>
  - Example: GET orgs/getById
- **@key**: sets the react-query key to use
  - If no key is given, it defaults to 'all'
- **@generateQuery**: defaults to true, set to false to NOT write a query (or mutation) for this endpoint
  - A common case is: generate the query, modify the generated file to suite your needs, then disable further generation to keep your changes
- **@generateInvalidation** true
  - Generate a react-query invalidation for this query key
- **@invalidate** keyName
  - Invalidate a key when the mutation is settled
  - Make sure the key is generated by some other route

## How to re-generate all the files

```sh
nx generate-sdk work-permit-data-access-api
```

## todo:

- ...always some more edge cases
- deal with dynamic and key params separately
- deal with enabled in a better way
